which is Accessibility and Carbon.
So just in case you weren't
aware or you weren't unable to
attend the previous session,
009,
as it applies to the Carbon framework.
So if you didn't see it,
please take the opportunity to join us.
So what I'd like to do now is
welcome Guy Fullerton on the stage
so he can present today's content.
Thank you.
Yeah, there we go.
I'm Guy.
I'm one of the high-level
Toolbox engineers,
or HI Toolbox engineers.
And in particular,
I've been working on the accessibility
side of Carbon for the last month or two.
And I want to show you basically how
you can take a Carbon application
and make it accessible.
[Transcript missing]
So we solve that with a
set of Accessibility APIs,
which abstract the notion of an
interface into these UI element objects.
And the Assistive API set is basically
the green boxes on the slide you see.
But in particular,
since this is a Carbon-focused session,
I'm just going to show you how the green
boxes work on the Carbon side and how you
can make a Carbon app fully accessible.
So there's three basic things an
application needs to do in order
to be considered accessible.
The first is it needs to be
able to explain to an assistive
application what its interface is.
What windows are in my app, what menus,
menu items, controls, buttons,
text fields, and all that stuff.
It needs to be able to
communicate that stuff.
Likewise, an assistive app might say,
well, tell me what widget is
underneath a given screen point,
something like that.
The second thing your application
would need to do is to allow an
assistive application to press buttons,
choose menu commands,
or invoke other sorts of
functionality within your application.
Finally,
the third thing your app would need
to do is send out notifications
to the assistive app saying,
hey, this part of my interface changed,
and a user's probably going to
want to know about that part,
so please communicate it to them.
And the way this all basically
works is through Carbon events.
I mean, Carbon events are the future.
We've been saying this for
the last couple of years.
We've been saying you're going to
need to learn about Carbon events
to adopt all the new features.
And this feature is no exception.
The suite of Carbon events
that we use to implement the
accessibility stuff on our side is,
they correspond pretty
directly to the C APIs.
So if you saw last session, you know,
assistive apps can say things like,
tell me what UI elements
under this point.
Give me the focused UI element.
Once I've got a UI element, you know,
they want to say,
give me some actions and
attributes and things like that.
And so we broke up the suite of
Carbon events into three basic sets.
The first set allows the assistive
application to pull UI elements out
of your application so that it can
see what the interface looks like.
It can get a given UI element at a point.
It can find the focused UI element and
look at your containment hierarchy.
It can find out about a given
UI element's parent or children.
The next suite of Carbon events allows
the assistive app to pull individual
pieces of data out of a UI element.
You might want to find out what a
button's title is or a window's title,
things like that.
Likewise, you also want to find out what
actions a UI element supports.
You know, a button might say that, hey,
I can be pressed.
Or a menu item might say,
Say, I can be picked.
And finally,
the third set is ways for the
assistive application to trigger
functionality in your app.
That's done in two basic ways.
As we showed in the previous session,
some attributes of a
UI element are modifiable,
so of course that's one way
to invoke functionality.
But the other way is to ask
UI elements to perform actions.
So some of you right now
are probably thinking,
oh, geez, Carbon Events, you know,
this is going to be such hard work.
Do I really want to do this?
We've got all this old legacy code.
You know, I'm in education.
We've had this code
working for ten years.
We haven't modified it.
We were lucky to get
it just working on ten.
How am I going to deal with this?
Well, it's actually really simple.
Carbon Events are adoptable
in a piece-by-piece fashion.
You don't have to rewrite
your entire application.
And they work with WaitNextEvent.
You can take your existing code
and just wire up accessibility
support into it and leave most
of the rest of your code alone.
I'll talk about some of the other minor
changes you'll need to make later.
But in particular,
you can find out more details
about migrating to Carbon Events by
checking out session 203,
which happened, what, two days ago,
Tuesday or Wednesday?
Get the DVD if you weren't
able to attend that session.
But it talks about the basics on
how to adopt Carbon Events and shows
you some techniques you can use.
So these Accessibility
Carbon Events need to get sent someplace,
right?
We need to make these requests into
certain places in your application.
And if you're familiar
with Carbon Events,
you know that you need a target
for a Carbon Event to be sent to.
And in particular,
the Accessibility Carbon Events will
be sent to potentially any
HI objects in your interface.
As we explained in our
HI Objects session,
windows controls and
menus are all HI objects.
You can make HI objects of your own.
And any of these could be or can be the
target of an Accessibility Carbon Event.
The really cool thing here is that all
of the standard system controls and
menus and windows and stuff like that,
they already have the accessibility
basics wired into them.
So you won't have to do any work
to make a button accessible.
You might want to augment
the button's accessibility
to add a few extra features.
And you can do that if you want.
But all the basic functionality is there.
Okay, so I'm going to get into a weird,
subtle concept thing here,
so bear with me.
So like I said,
these Accessibility Carbon events
and requests are made onto
windows controls and menus,
and that makes a lot of sense, right?
You might -- if you've got a window,
you might want to know what
children UI elements it's got,
or like it shows on the slide,
you might want to find out a push
button's title or a menu's size.
But that doesn't answer
a couple other questions.
You might want to find out something
about an individual menu item,
like what's its title,
or something really weird
like a scroll bar's arrow.
That, from the accessibility standpoint,
needs to look like a button.
But there's nothing to represent
an individual arrow in a scroll
bar in terms of an HI object.
So we don't really have a way to
send a Carbon event directly to a
menu item or a scroll bar arrow.
The way we solve that is by saying
that the owner of that subcomponent,
the HI object that has
that subcomponent in it,
is the target of the
Accessibility Carbon event.
And that's the way we solve that.
So for example, if you want to find out
the title of a menu item,
that Accessibility Carbon event is
going to be sent to the menu ref,
which is an HI object,
and which therefore can
receive Carbon events.
The other main goal is
we need to have a really,
really flexible representation
for this notion of a UI element,
for this notion of an accessible object.
Obviously,
it's got to be able to represent all
the things I've talked about so far,
windows, menu items, things like that.
But it also needs to be flexible
enough to represent completely
custom parts in your application.
We know there's a lot of Carbon apps
out there that have maybe
their own text editing engine,
or you don't use the control
manager a lot because you've
got some custom-looking stuff,
and so you just hand-roll
that on your own.
We need to make sure that our
Carbon mechanism for allowing
accessibility lets you make every
part of your application accessible.
And the way we do that is
with a type that we talked
about in the previous session,
the AX UI element ref.
Like all the Accessibility
APIs and types,
this one starts with AX.
And so when I refer to a UI element,
what I'm actually talking about is
one of these AX UI element refs.
These are CF types.
You retain them and release them and
put them in CF collections and stuff,
all like that, just like you would do
with any other CF type.
And this type allows you to represent
any accessible widget on the screen,
anything you want.
And most importantly,
one of these UI element refs is a proxy.
So this is what one might
look like in memory.
It's got a process ID in it pointing to
the application to which it came from.
And it's also going to have some
framework-specific references that point
into some data within your application.
So, for instance, on Carbon,
these pointers might look like
a control ref or a menu ref,
something like that, whereas for Cocoa,
they're going to point to
the various Cocoa structures.
So on Carbon,
a UI element's framework-specific
data has two fundamental pieces.
It's obviously got an HI object.
You know, like I said,
we need a place to which we
send these Carbon events.
But it's also got a 64-bit
identifier associated with it,
and I'll talk more about why
we need that in a minute.
You manage them with three basic APIs.
There's ax-ui-element,
create with HI object and identifier.
I tried to make a really,
really long API name
because I like those,
but you use that to create
one of these UI elements.
Once you've created one and you're
hanging on to it for whatever reason,
you can pull out the HI object
or the 64-bit identifier with
one of the other accessor APIs.
Okay, so like I said,
the UI element has an HI object
in it for a Carbon app.
And fundamentally speaking,
this is just the target of the
Carbon events that might correspond to
requests for information or requests
for action on one of those UI elements.
And generally,
it's going to be one of the
Toolbox data structures,
like a control ref or a menu
ref or something like that.
But it can be any other
HI object you might desire.
If you feel like expanding the
toolbar HI object's functionality,
hey, you can throw Accessibility
Carbon event handlers on that.
And start returning UI elements
based on the toolbar if you want.
Now, granted,
the system's already going to support
accessibility for the toolbar,
but you might want to
augment that in some fashion.
So the 64-bit identifier is what
allows a UI element to represent
a subcomponent of an HI object.
And I've got some graphical
examples here in a sec,
but bear with me.
If you've got a UI element--well,
you know what,
let's just jump right into the examples.
It'll be easier to explain.
If you've got a UI element that
contains the framework-specific
data of a menu ref and zero,
that's going to represent the whole menu,
right?
Zero generally means the whole thing,
the whole HI object that I'm talking to.
Whereas if I've got a UI element that
has a menu ref and an identifier of two,
that might represent the menu item,
the second menu item of that menu.
The one important thing to note here
is that this 64-bit identifier space is
privately definable by the HI object.
So if you have a system
ref like a menu ref,
you don't want to make assumptions
that that menu ref plus two
equals the UI element that
represents the second menu item,
right?
It's up to the menu ref's
implementation to decide what
the 64-bit identifier means.
Just another example here,
if you've got a data browser control
and you build a UI element that
contains the control ref and zero,
that's going to represent
the whole outline view,
which is our term for a data browser and
list view in the accessibility space.
Whereas if you've got a UI element
that contains the control ref and
some hex identifier of some fashion,
it might refer to some cell
within the data browser.
So to make this,
just to hammer this point home,
this is probably a technique
you will want to take advantage
of within your own application.
And here's one way you
might want to do that.
Let's say you've got a custom
text editing engine in your app,
and it's not implemented in terms
of controls or anything like that,
and you want to make it accessible,
you can use this same technique.
If you need to generate an accessible,
sorry, a UI element that represents the
entire text engine in that window,
you're going to create an HI object
to represent that text engine
and create a UI element wrapped
around that HI object and zero.
And that will point to the whole thing.
But let's say you want to go a step
further and you want to make individual
sections of your document accessible.
You know, you want to expose paragraphs
or words or something like
that as individual UI elements.
You can do that, too.
And so one thing you might do is say,
all right,
if I want to make this accessible,
I'm going to have to make it accessible.
If I want to represent the
12th word of this document,
I'm going to create a UI element wrapped
around that engine's HI object and the
identifier 12 or something like that.
So now we know,
you know a little bit about
representing your application,
but I want to talk about
it from a higher level.
The UI elements that an
accessible application looks at,
sorry,
that an assistive application looks at,
form a containment hierarchy, right?
You've got an app UI element.
That app points at a couple
windows as its children and also
has the menu bar as a child.
Each of those windows might have
a root control as its child,
and any of the controls in
there might contain lots more
controls and things like that.
So as you think about how
to represent your app,
keep those basic concepts in mind.
You want to form a hierarchy.
So,
the examples I showed on the other side,
other slide obviously,
the system's going to handle
most of the stuff for you.
We already make windows accessible.
We already make menus,
the menu bar and individual
menus accessible.
You know, we already make the control
hierarchy accessible.
And the important part for you is
that you're going to want to do work
to make the custom areas of your
application as accessible as possible.
And to do that, fundamentally,
you just need to create HI objects
to represent those parts.
Better yet,
create HI views to represent those parts.
And then you're going to fit in
with our new HI view model as well.
So, it's a double win.
The one trick, if you do not turn your,
represent your application
with HI views or control rafts,
and instead you're just building
HI objects and using those to represent
your app in an accessible manner,
in order to make sure
your app's HI objects are
represented in the right way,
you're going to want to do a lot of work
to make sure that your app's HI objects
are represented in the right way.
So, if your app's HI objects are
represented in this hierarchy,
you're going to need to override
certain default handling.
In particular, if you want,
let's say you've got
a text editing engine.
You want to make sure that engine is
represented as a child of the window.
You're going to need to make sure
to override that window's handling
of the get children Carbon event,
right?
So, you can put your UI element in that
array of the window's children.
And this is another weird note
that I want to talk about.
Sometimes as you're thinking
about your hierarchy and looking
at how the system does things,
you might be worried that too much
information is going to be thrown in
the face of an assistive application.
The picture on the left there shows
what an actual control hierarchy
in a window might look like.
Obviously you've got a
window ref on the outside.
That window ref is going
to have a root control.
You might have a couple other controls
that ultimately wrap a user pane.
And inside that user
pane is a push button.
And as it turns out,
the root control and the user
pane aren't really important.
They may not actually represent any
information that the user ever sees.
Obviously the root control is there
just because the system needs it.
And the user pane might be there just
as a convenience for your development
or some other grouping mechanism.
So you don't want an assistive
app to actually see those.
You want the assistive app to see what
we show in the picture on the right,
which is just, hey,
there's a button in this window.
And the way we allow that on Carbon is
through the use of the assistive app.
of ignored UIElements.
Any HI object can be marked
as accessibility ignored.
And if you mark it as
accessibility ignored,
it can still be returned as a
child or a parent of various
other accessible objects.
But the layer that actually services
the request from Carbon and hands
something back across to the
assistive application makes sure
to filter those out transparently.
It does all the hard work for you.
Okay, so let's get down into
some nuts and bolts here.
The first thing an assistive application
is going to ask you for is UI elements.
It can't start anywhere without them.
So you need to know how to send those
over to the assistive application,
or more correctly,
how to service requests
for those UI elements.
They can ask for them
three different ways.
They can ask your app, hey,
tell me what UI element is under this
particular mouse position on the screen.
Or they might say, hey,
tell me what focused -- sorry,
what UI element is focused
in your app right now.
Or they might be tunneling
down from the root,
right?
They might have grabbed your
application's UI element and
start traversing the hierarchy,
and ultimately they're trying to
find some grandchild or child of
some window or something like that.
So the first way,
which is finding something by position,
is done via the K-event accessible
get-child-at-point Carbon event.
This Carbon event
contains two parameters.
The first, obviously,
is the UI element that's being queried,
and it'll contain a global screen
point that they're interested in.
So one other note I should
probably make about these,
the Carbon accessibility engine will
send these sorts of events recursively.
So your responsibility when serving,
servicing one of these events is
actually just to pass back your
immediate child that's under that point.
And the Carbon accessibility
engine will take care of any
recursion that needs to happen.
So fundamentally,
when the assistive app wants to find
a UI element under a given point,
a bunch of these Carbon events
are going to get sent out.
One's first going to get sent to
the application accessible object,
and it'll say, oh, okay,
this window's under the point.
Then that window will
be sent the same event,
and it'll say, okay,
this first-order control
is under that point.
Then we'll send the event
to that first-order control,
and it'll say, okay,
this sub-control's under that point.
And we'll keep going until
somebody finally says,
oh, not handled,
there's no child under that point.
And at that instance, the engine knows,
okay,
the last person I ask is the leaf node.
So you want to make sure
when you handle this event,
only return your immediate children.
So, okay, I want to give you an
interesting code example here,
and this kind of plays into the
notion of injecting one of your
HI objects into the hierarchy.
So for purposes of this
example and some of the others,
I'm going to assume we're
trying to make an application
with a text editor accessible,
and that text editor is
not based on any controls.
You've got your own custom
text editing engine,
but you've built an
HI object to represent that,
and you want to make sure that
that HI object is reported
as a child of the window.
So to do that, like I mentioned before,
you want to override the
window's handling of the
getChildAtPoint Carbon event,
right?
Because your engine is
going to be in the window,
and if the mouse is over that engine,
you want to make sure
to return that child,
not the one that the window
normally would have returned,
which is probably going to be some
control or something like that.
Okay,
so this code in here would be in the
handler that you write and install on
the window to override its handling
of the getChildAtPoint Carbon event.
The first thing you would do
is pull the accessible object
out of the Carbon event.
This is the accessible object
that the request is being made of.
In this case,
it's going to be the window.
Here's a subtle point that you
want to remember when you're
overwriting somebody's handling.
You've just got a UI element out,
and presumably, well,
that UI element will contain the
HI object that is the window ref
to whom the Carbon event was sent,
but that UI element might also
have some identifier in it,
some non-zero identifier.
Remember, like I was saying,
a non-zero identifier refers to
some subcomponent of the window.
I'm going to get the identifier out,
and if that identifier is not zero,
I'm going to say, okay,
I don't want to handle this.
I don't want to override the window's
handling of fetch me a child of,
you know, the close box,
because I don't want my engine
to be a child of the close box.
So I'd return event not handled
error if I get a non-zero identifier.
So assuming I don't get
a non-zero identifier,
I fetch the next parameter out,
which is the global
screen mouse location,
convert it from global to local,
and then I'm going to ask my text editor,
hey, do you contain this point?
And if it says no, then, again,
I don't want to handle it.
I want to let the windows
default handling of this event
take care of the situation.
You know, maybe the window might return,
oh, some controls under the
mouse or something like that.
But assuming it is
within the text editor,
you would call your text
editor to create a UI element.
So you've got a hold of that.
And then you put that in the Carbon event
in one of the return parameters.
In particular, you say, okay,
this UI element,
this is the accessible child parameter.
And at that point,
you can release the UI element
and return no error because
you've completely handled it.
You just said, hey,
my engine is a child of the window.
Carbon event savvy people who've
used them a lot might see something
really scary in this batch of code.
In particular, I do an allocation.
I stick that allocation
in the Carbon event,
and then I deallocate the memory.
And then when I return,
you might be thinking, oh,
problems are going to ensue because,
you know,
the subsystem is going to try to pull
this parameter out and act on it,
and I've disposed it,
and we're going to blow up.
Well, no, we're not.
I actually fixed Jaguar.
Oh, whoops.
I guess I don't know if it's live.
If we see a CF type come in
as a Carbon event parameter,
we'll retain it.
That reference will be valid for
the life of that Carbon event.
So you can do these kind
of convenient things.
So this will work for any CF type ref
that is put into a Carbon event parameter
with one of the type CF type ref types.
Oh, that's kind of confusing.
But on the slide, you can obviously see
type CF type ref up there.
But it'll also work for the
various other type CF refs that
we've defined in the headers.
It's like a type
CFStringRef and type CFArrayRef.
We do all the magic with those two.
Okay, so the next Carbon event
I want to talk about is the
GetFocusedChild Carbon event.
Just like the
GetChildAtPoint Carbon event,
this one tunnels down automatically,
so you want to make sure you
only return the leaf node child
that might be focused of you.
And if you don't have a
focused child within you,
just say event not handled error.
And again,
that just lets the subsystem know that,
okay, they asked you,
you're probably the focused one,
and it can make sure to return
you as the focused thing.
The third way that they
can ask for UI elements is
through familial references.
They might ask for your children or your
parent or maybe some other attribute
of you which is implicitly a child.
Like we showed before,
the application supports an attribute,
the menu bar, right,
and that's implicitly a
child of the application.
So all this is fundamentally
just a specific case of
fetching attributes in general.
So attributes of a UI element are
just pieces of data that you can
record and use to fetch attributes.
So all this is fundamentally just a
specific case of fetch attributes.
Yeah, so we saw the examples.
Now,
certain attributes we consider required,
and we're still working on
exactly what the required set is,
but my current thinking is this.
Every UI element must have a role.
The role describes a
UI element's basic purpose,
right?
Are you a button?
Are you a checkbox or a window
or a menu or something like that?
And this allows the assistive application
to make some internal logical decisions
about what the user might be able to
do with that particular UI element.
But it's important to note that even
though the role is a CFStringRef,
it's not intended to be
communicated to the user via speech.
In our case,
all the standard roles that we
return are prefixed with K-A-X,
or sorry, just A-X and then some name.
So you generally don't want to read that.
If you do want to present
something readable to the user,
you would ask for the role description,
and so it's up to you guys
to supply a readable role
description for your various items.
For instance, if you have a button,
its role description might actually
be button or something similar.
Likewise, well,
and this is kind of a subtle point,
the size and position attributes,
So if I step back for a sec, UI elements,
pretty much, not pretty much,
they should only represent
what's on screen.
It would be kind of silly to have a
UI element that represents something
that the user couldn't see or that
a conventional user couldn't see.
So any UI element, since it's on screen,
is going to have a size and position.
We've got a couple new
types to talk about those,
AX size and AX position.
Those are defined in the
accessibility headers.
But if you like, for convenience,
and since HITooLbox supports them,
you can also pass those back in
terms of an HI size or an HI point.
And likewise,
any attributes that should be represented
as UI elements are UI elements,
right?
You can pass back,
if somebody asks you for your parent,
you're going to want to pass
back an actual AX UI element
ref to represent the parent.
And likewise,
if they ask you for your children,
you want to pass back a
CFArray of AX UI element refs
that represent your children.
Okay, so the first Carbon event
having to do with attributes
is get all attribute names.
It's got two pieces of information in it,
the UI element to whom the
question's being asked,
and a CFArrayRef for you to fill out
with all of the attribute names that
your accessible object supports.
So that's your job.
You handle the event simply by filling
up this array with a bunch of strings
representing the attributes you support.
We've got a ton,
a ton of attribute names in the header.
An important thing to realize
is that we're still working on
this set of attribute names.
You're going to see some flux
between now and when Jaguar actually,
actually ships.
We want to kind of refine the
set of attribute names down
into some reasonable group,
at least the default attribute names.
But you're free to return
whatever attribute names you want.
If you want a really,
really rich accessibility application,
sorry, accessibility implementation
in your application,
you know,
you can pass in 30 or 40 attributes as
supported by one of your UI elements.
So let me run through a quick example.
Unlike the last example,
this is a handler that's
installed on your HI object.
This is not some patch
on some other HI object.
But like the other example,
this might show you what a text engine
would do in terms of reporting the
attributes that it wants to support.
So we receive the Carbon event.
We pull out the mutable array
ref that we need to fill up.
And then we're going to put in
all the required attribute names,
you know, role, role description, parent,
children, all those things.
And then we're going to put in our
more interesting attribute names
that are specific to a text engine.
You're probably going to want
to supply a text attribute,
right?
You're a text engine.
You need to supply text.
You probably also want to
support the selection attribute
so that a screen reader might
be able to tell the user that,
yeah,
characters 50 through 100 are selected,
and maybe others.
And then you return -- oh,
and then you return no error,
and you're done.
Thank you.
So the next Carbon event
is Get Named Attribute.
This will be sent to you when the
assistive application has a UI element
and it's found out what attributes you
support and it wants to find out what the
data is behind one of those attributes.
So the Carbon event contains, obviously,
the UI element to whom the
question is being asked,
and then CFStringRef of
the attribute name that the
assistive app is interested in.
And your responsibility is
simply to pass back the data
that represents that attribute.
is an expert in the world of text.
So let me give you a
quick example of that.
You're going to pull out the
name that you're interested in.
At this point,
I've already pulled out the UI element,
if that's at all interesting to me.
So here I'm pulling
out the attribute name,
and I'm going to do a test to
see if it's the text attribute.
You know,
I'm going to have a bunch of if else,
if else, if else,
and this happens to be the first one.
So if I find out it is a
request for the text attribute,
I'm going to put the data into the event.
So I'll ask my text engine, hey,
please create a CFString for me.
I've got the string,
and then I shove that back
in the Carbon event as an
output parameter in the,
what is it,
accessible attribute value parameter,
and then I release the
string to clean up,
and I'll return no error.
One important thing to note is
the suite of Carbon events and
the assistive applications really,
really,
really want you to return CF types.
It's a very generic way
of representing data.
So when possible, return attribute values
in terms of CF types.
The toolbox does a little
bit of conversion for you for
some of the things like H.I.
points and H.I.
sizes, and we will, you know, likewise,
if you happen to put data in the
event that's type Unicode text,
we'll build a CFString rep out of that.
But, you know,
we can't cover all the bases,
so we're kind of leaning on you
guys to make sure you return the
data in the form of a CF type.
And this is particularly important
because ultimately this data
needs to get sent cross process.
And CF has a very convenient,
easy way for us to send
this data across process,
and other types don't necessarily.
So attributes aren't just static.
Some of them can be changed.
And assistive applications
might want to find out,
hey,
which of your attributes are changeable?
And they would do that by calling
into the Accessibility APIs.
And then we would send your UI element
the isNamedAttributeSetableCarbon event.
Really straightforward.
They're going to give
you your UI element.
you the attribute name.
And your job is simply to return a
Boolean that represents whether or
not that attribute can be modified.
If you don't support the event or if
you return event not handled error,
it's just an assumption that that
particular attribute is non-modifiable.
So if in your implementation you find,
okay, I've got this UI element.
I want to support these attributes.
But none of them are modifiable.
You don't even need to
support this Carbon event.
So just as a quick example of this,
we're going to get the attribute
name out of the Carbon event,
take a look, and in this case,
it happens to be our text.
So we see that it's the text,
and we want to allow the assistive
application to change the text.
We want this to be a
modifiable attribute.
So we set our Boolean value to true,
we stick it in the Carbon event,
and return.
That's all you need to do for that.
So once the assistive
application has found out that,
yeah,
I've got this settable attribute here,
it may present that
information to the user,
and the user says, okay,
change this attribute to some value,
you will receive the set
named attribute Carbon event.
And that's going to contain
three pieces of data,
the UI element, the attribute name,
and the data that the user wants to
have inserted into that attribute.
So your job simply is to take the data
out of the Carbon event and put it
into whatever your implementation is.
So in this case,
we get the attribute name,
we see that it's the attribute name,
and we want to allow the user to
change the attribute to some value.
So we set our Boolean value to true,
we stick it in the Carbon event,
and return.
That's all you need to do for that.
We see that it's the text again.
So now we're going to need to extract
the data out of the Carbon event and
push it into our text editing engine,
which is fairly straightforward.
The data coming into the
Carbon event is in the accessible
attribute value parameter.
So we pull the data out.
You want to check for no error here.
Let me step back real quick.
When I'm pulling the data here,
pulling the data out here,
I'm actually asking for
it as generic CF type ref.
We do have more specific types in there.
But generally,
just -- you want to ask for
it as the generic CF type ref,
and then later,
dynamically look and see what real type
it is and see if you can handle it.
And I've got an example
of that in the slide.
Now, it's possible that the data
that the app sent you can't be
translated to the type you requested.
And if that's the case,
you're going to receive an error back.
And if you get that error,
go ahead and stop processing.
: Otherwise, we get some valid data,
and I know my text engine can
only handle CF types--sorry,
can only handle CFStrings for
purposes of shoving data into it.
So here I want to check the actual
CF type ID of the data I got
and make sure it's a string.
And if it's not a string,
I know I can't handle it,
so I'm just going to say event
not handle error and be done.
Otherwise,
I'm going to tell my text engine, "Hey,
please set your text to this."
It's pretty straightforward.
And then you're going to return no error.
So one way that assistive
applications will want to affect
your app is in terms of actions.
[Transcript missing]
: It's lots of things
you can do with actions.
Obviously, press is the big example.
Picking a menu item is a big example.
But you want to think pretty carefully
about what actions you support.
If something can be better
represented as settable attributes,
go ahead and do it as a settable
attribute as opposed to an action.
So this is going to look really familiar.
The first action related Carbon event is
the means for an assistive application
to find out all the actions that
your particular UI element supports.
This is virtually identical to
the get all attribute names.
Just put the word action in
there instead and you return
different stuff in the array.
We have a bunch of standard
actions in the headers and just
as with the attribute names,
the action names are in
a little bit of flux.
We want to figure out what the default
set of actions are and And so you
will see some changes to the header
when Jaguar is finally shipped.
So the next interesting thing
about actions is the notion
of an action description.
Action strings are generally
not meant to be human readable.
Our default strings are
all prefixed with AX,
right?
And it wouldn't be reasonable
to say this button represents,
or sorry,
this button supports the AXPRESS action.
That wouldn't make any sense whatsoever.
But assistive apps do need to
communicate what the meaning
of an action is to the user.
And they do that by finding out
what the action's description is.
So when an assistive app
needs to find that out,
your UI element will be sent the get
named action description Carbon event.
It's going to contain the UI element,
the action name that
they're interested in,
and a modifiable string ref that you
need to fill out with a sort of human
readable description of the action.
Another important thing to note
is that these strings that you
return that are human readable,
they should be localized,
and they should match whatever
language your app happens
to be running in right now.
So finally,
an assistive app has found out, okay,
yeah, this widget supports some action.
All right, invoke it.
And when they want to invoke it,
your UI element will be sent the
form named action CarbonEvent.
It's got the UI element in it and the
action name that they want to invoke.
And your job is simply to
make the interface react,
do the right thing.
So here's another example.
This is pulled out almost verbatim
from our push button control.
But this is one example where
you might want the button
to support the press action.
You're going to pull out the UI element.
And in this case,
we're going to also get the
HI object out of the UI element.
In this particular case,
the HI object will be
the button's control ref.
And then we call the
HIViewSimulateClick API,
which is an HIView API that we added
in Jaguar to do click simulation.
You can think of this as a
wrap around the old technique
of calling highlight control,
delay, highlight control,
but it does it in a more
Carbon event-based fashion.
And there's some hooks for CDEFs to
get in there and modify the behaviors.
But the other really cool thing
about HIViewSimulateClick is
that it has the same post-click
behaviors as something like handle
control click or track control,
in that if the view that you're clicking
or the control that you're clicking
has a command ID associated with it,
HIViewSimulateClick will make sure
that you're clicking on the button.
sure to send out that command
ID so that the rest of your
interface can react appropriately.
Okay, so here's another subtle point,
but since assistive applications
are going to be invoking press
actions in buttons that the system
has already made accessible,
you will not be able to react to that
button press unless you've got a handler
that handles that button's command.
So let me give you kind
of a roundabout example.
If you've got an application
probably ported from original 9 code,
wait next event based,
and you're event handling
looks something like,
okay, wait next event,
I got a mouse down event, okay,
is that mouse down event in the window?
Yeah, it's in a window, okay,
find control, oh, I found a control,
okay, I need to call track control,
I call track control,
I found out that K button part was hit,
and now I have this big switch
statement and a bunch of ifs to say,
okay, which control was hit,
if that button was hit,
go off and do some action.
That works great if you're getting
events in through wait next event,
but that sort of technique will not
work when an assistive application
is telling you that you're not
getting your button to press,
because this button press is going to
come in completely behind your back.
The system is just going
to see this press request,
we're going to flash the button,
and your app needs to react.
Likewise, if you are used to handling
your menu commands by calling
menu select or menu event,
looking what the result was,
and then doing some big switch
case statement and figuring out
what functionality to trigger,
that also won't work with
assistive applications that
try to pick your menu items,
because, of course,
that menu selection is also going to
happen completely behind your back.
So you're going to have to do that.
So your only way to hook in
to an assistive application's
triggering of controls and
menus is through H I commands.
We've talked about this in the past.
We've got some documentation out there,
but basically H I commands are a
simple way to put these four character
constants into your controls and menus,
and you will be informed when a menu
item is chosen or a control is clicked
by that command ID through Carbon events.
So, you can see here,
the button's command ID is
sent out first to the button,
then to the button's parent,
things like that.
We have a feature in Jaguar
whereby I think controls and
menus can have their commands.
I'm looking for Eric to nod.
Both controls and menus can have
their commands sent to the user focus.
Okay.
So menus automatically have their
commands sent to the user focus,
and I think controls can, too.
So just put a bunch of the
standard or custom commands in
your menu items and your controls,
and then take out all that code you
do after calling handle control click,
where you look at it,
see if it was a button part,
see what control was hitting,
all that stuff.
Take out all the post menu
select code that you do with
the big switch case statements,
and turn that into Carbon event
handlers that listen for the k
event command process Carbon event.
You can put those on your windows
or your controls or even the
application as you find easiest.
So the third major piece of
functionality with respect to
accessibility are notifications.
These are ways that a UI element can say,
"Hey, something happened to me.
You know, my value changed if
I'm a scroll bar," or,
you know,
"A window moved," or something like that.
An assistive application will register
for specific notifications on your app,
but you want to go ahead and call
the API that I'll show you here
in a second whenever anything
happens to your HI object.
And the system will make sure to
only send a cross-process message
if somebody's actually interested in
hearing that notification cross-process.
And of course,
we're going to send out all
the normal notifications for
all of our standard widgets,
and all you need to do is the work
for your custom implementations.
And again, we've got lots of standard
notification strings in the header.
And that is probably the most
influx suite of constants.
We were just talking
about it the other day.
We need to figure out what the
right set of notifications is that
still provides a rich enough set
of information for assistive apps,
but isn't cumbersome for people to adopt,
particularly us.
You know, we've got a lot of controls
to send out information for.
So we need to find the right balance.
So the notification posting
example is really simple.
It's just one line of code.
You don't actually supply
a UI element to this API.
It would be kind of silly considering
we're just going to take that
UI element apart in the implementation.
So you just call the notify API,
pass the notification
you're interested in,
and then the two separate
component parts of the UI element.
You pass your HI object, ref,
and the identifier.
And the engine will do the right thing.
It will send it
cross-process if it needs to,
or it will just be nice and
quiet if it doesn't need to.
So some of my examples today
were in the text space.
And the reason for that is
text is probably the most
important thing to represent for
a truly accessible application.
A huge space of assistive applications
are completely broken if you
can't report the text in your app.
So please, when you're implementing your
custom accessibility support,
make sure all the text in your app
is reported as best as possible.
Even if you can just do
something really simple,
which is, OK,
I've got an HI object that represents
the entire text of my document,
that's going to be more
useful than nothing.
But if you can make it richer, hey,
great.
You know, start reporting paragraphs or
individual words if you can.
And keyboard navigation is also
a big part of accessibility,
but it's sort of a
separate piece of adoption.
We've greatly expanded what parts of the
system are keyboard navigable in Jaguar.
You can switch up to the menu
bar and start choosing items
and navigate between menus.
You can navigate between
windows in the whole system or
windows in your application.
You can move the focus to toolbars,
and you can now focus to a
much wider variety of controls.
We've tried to make all the system
controls keyboard navigable.
And we'd really like you guys
to make the custom parts of your
application keyboard navigable.
I mean,
you're going to fit in better on Jaguar,
because it's going to
look really strange when,
hey, I can focus to the standard
system push buttons,
but I can't focus to this
application's custom push buttons.
Why?
But it also is going to
make assistive apps easier,
and it'll make users of assistive
apps also have an easier time,
because a lot of them
can't use the mouse,
and they rely on using the
keyboard as much as possible.
I talked an awful lot about keyboard
navigation yesterday in our new
controls and services session.
If you didn't get a chance to go
to that and see all the details,
grab the DVD and take a look at that.
I mentioned this a couple times,
but this is all still in flux.
We really want to hear your feedback,
but more importantly,
some of the stuff I've talked
about today isn't implemented yet.
The notification API,
the Carbon side of that
is not implemented.
That will be implemented, obviously,
by the time we ship.
And likewise,
the ability for you to mark an HI object
as ignored is also not exported.
And we're going to try to nail down
the set of attributes and actions
and notifications as soon as we can,
and we'd love to hear
your guys' opinions.
We've taken a look at lots of
other accessibility solutions,
and there's lots of ways of doing things.
We've got our own opinions on it,
but your feedback will be
really important to us.
And likewise,
if you get a chance to try out Jaguar
and you play with the various sample apps
that they showed in the last session,
you'll see that there's a wide variety
of levels of support in the system.
Right now,
the work I've been doing and my fellow
teammates have been doing on Carbon,
trails a little bit behind Cocoa.
So you'll see some applications
that report tons and tons of stuff,
and you go in other applications and
it supports a smaller subset of stuff.
Realize that we're still working on this.
We are going to make sure that we have
full parity between Carbon and Cocoa,
and that if you get a UI element
that represents a button,
if you're an assistive app,
you shouldn't be able to tell whether
that's a Carbon or Cocoa button.
And we're going to try to make
sure of that by reporting the
exact same set of actions and
attributes and stuff like that.
So to sum up,
there's about four things you want
to do to make your app accessible.
Make sure you switch over
to using HI commands.
Put those in your menus
and your controls.
Because without that,
assistive apps will not be
able to drive your interface.
And then make sure to wire up your
custom content for the appropriate
accessibility Carbon events.
And send notifications for any
meaningful state change that
happened in your HI objects.
And get keyboard navigation in there.
You know, you may be thinking of that
as an accessibility feature,
but it's really just a
general user feature,
and everybody's going
to find that useful.
We've already got
documentation out there.
I think both of these are on the CD.
No, it looks like one's on the -- oh,
maybe both are on the web.
We have documentation that takes you
over what I've talked about and what
they talked about in the last session,
the overview and the C APIs that
an assistive application would use.
And we also have a white paper that
kind of explains what we're doing
from a conceptual point of view,
gives us some of the background
of what we're doing and some
of our thinking behind it.
So check those out if you can.
And unfortunately, everything on the
roadmaps already happened,
so if you didn't get a chance
to go to these various sessions,
get the DVD, check them out.
We talk about a lot of
important information in there.
In particular,
session 204 is where we define HI objects
and how we show how they're the future,
and we explain how controls, windows,
and menus all fit into the
notion of the HI object.
And we'll show you how to-- that
session also shows you how to
create HI objects and manage them.
And you'll need to know how to
do that when you're making custom
parts of your app accessible.
And session 203 talks about
the Carbon Event basics,
how to install Carbon Event handlers,
how to handle them, and things like that.
So if you're unfamiliar with
Carbon Events and this is
gonna be your first foray in,
you want to check out that session,
get some of the basics.
The session right before this
was the Accessibility Overview,
where it talks about maybe
more conceptual stuff,
and it also shows you the
APIs you need to use if you
want to write an assistive app,
like a screen reader.
and Travis Brown is our WWDR contact.
So if you have any questions
or feedback about this stuff,
drop him an email.
And I'd like to bring him up
now to lead us through some Q&A.
Travis.